Growing mesh case (#600)
precice/tutorials: growing-mesh/README.md

---
title: Growing Mesh
permalink: tutorials-growing-mesh.html
keywords: python, remeshing
summary: The growing mesh case is a showcase example of two solvers which grow their mesh at predefined points in time.
---

{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/growing-mesh). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

> ## Setup

Reviewer: pending

Author: Done

## Configuration

preCICE configuration (image generated using the [precice-config-visualizer](https://precice.org/tooling-config-visualization.html)):

![preCICE configuration visualization](images/tutorials-growing-mesh-precice-config.png)

## Available solvers

There are two solvers that define the same mesh:

- A who runs first

> - B who runs second

Reviewer: We so far avoid calling participants and data generic names, but try to relate to a specific physical domain and application use case. This is currently only partially described in the [naming conventions](https://precice.org/community-contribute-to-precice.html#naming-conventions).

Of course, this is fine for now (and fine for an integration test), but before merging, we should better have more descriptive names.

Author: They both represent the same mesh and don't model any physical behaviour.

Not sure what we would name them.

Reviewer 2: There is a physical motivation for this scenario. We could borrow names there?

Author: The pyhsical motivation is to couple a hydrogeological and geomechanical model and let them iterate until they agree on effective stress.
Without the iterative scheme, there is no correction and the geomechanical model doesn't have a function.

So, I cannot see obvious names that we can use here.

Reviewer: But then we need to better express the motivation in the description and say that the modeling is (extremely) simplified, as is the case in general in our tutorials.

With the current formulation, it is a great integration test, but it looks a bit odd as a tutorial.

Author: I added the motivation and more details about the solver.

## Running the Simulation

Pass the amount of ranks to the run script of the solvers.
Not passing a number, runs the simulation on a single rank.
To run both on a two rank each, use:

```bash
cd fluid-cpp
./run.sh 2
```

and

```bash
cd solid-cpp

> ./run.sh 2

Reviewer: fixme

---
title: Growing Mesh
permalink: tutorials-growing-mesh.html
keywords: python, remeshing
summary: The growing mesh case is a showcase example of two solvers which grow their mesh at predefined points in time.
---

{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/growing-mesh). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

## Motivation

> This case is an extremely simplified version of the scenario presented by Jean-Marc Gratien during Coupled 2023 *Implementing a Comprehensive Hydromechanical Model for Sedimentary Basins by Coupling a 3D Mechanical Code to a Classic Basin Fluid Flow Code with the PreCICE Library*.

Reviewer: Do we need the title case (with `PreCICE`) here? 😬

In the original scenario a hydrogeological and a geomechanical model are coupled via preCICE using an implicit coupling schemes.
The scheme iterates until both model agree on effective stress.
At fixed points in time, geological events deposit new layers onto the mesh, effectively growing the mesh into z-direction.

This tutorial aims to implement such a growing mesh scenario without the implicit coupling.

## Setup

The problem consists of a unit-square uniformly discretized by 512 x 512 nodes.
The unit square is partitioned among the ranks of a solver according to an n x m grid, where 512 must be divisible by n and m.

> The mesh starts with 2 nodes in z direction and at a given frequency, 2 nodes are added to the mesh, changing only the load per rank, not the partitioning.

Reviewer: The original was a bit difficult for me to read, maybe this is better:

```suggestion
The mesh starts with two nodes in z direction. In regular intervals, two nodes are added to the mesh, changing only the load per rank, but not the partitioning.
```

> 

Reviewer: "A and B" are mentioned below, but not introduced. Compromise:

```suggestion

While motivated by a setup with a hydrogeological and a geomechanical model, we name these participants A and B, as this tutorial only aims to demonstrate the any such growing mesh case scenario.
```

## Configuration

preCICE configuration (image generated using the [precice-config-visualizer](https://precice.org/tooling-config-visualization.html)):

![preCICE configuration visualization](images/tutorials-growing-mesh-precice-config.png)

## Available solvers

There is a generic python solver that can be used for either A or B.

The runs scripts in participant folders `A` and `B` accept the amount of ranks as an optional parameter.

## Running the Simulation

Pass the amount of ranks to the run script of the solvers.
Not passing a number, runs the simulation on a single rank.
To run both on a two rank each, use:

```bash
cd A
./run.sh 2
```

and

```bash
cd B
./run.sh 2

> ```

Reviewer: A post-processing section would be nice, hinting to what the user should see in the end. Note that there is no other figure (besides the config visualization) in this tutorial. Someone that does not yet know what "growing mesh" means would need to read and imagine a bit first, before being able to get a first overview.

An image with the mesh in two different times (potentially with partitions shown) would be helpful.

Reviewer: Does this case even produce any results to show how the mesh grows?
